Java new features
------------------------

##  Java 5 New Features
The J2SE 5.0 release is focused along the key areas of ease of development, scalability, performance, quality,
etc. The new features include generics, metadata (aka annotations), autoboxing and auto-unboxing of
primitive types, enhanced "for" loop, enumerated type, static import, C style formatted output, formatted
input, varargs, etc. The following code sample depicts some of these new features. Brief explanation follows the
sample code, so if you do not understand any part of the code, come back to it after reading the brief explanation.

##  Java 6 New Features
– XML processing and Web services
– JDBC 4.0
– Annotation-based programming
– Java compiler APIs
– Application client GUI APIs

##  Java 7 New Features
- switch("String")

- try with resource
```shell script
try(InputStream is = new FileInputStream(new File("c:\test")) {
// read file
} catch (IOException e) {
//
}
```

no need to include "finally { is.close()} "
 
Each AutoClosable resource created in the try statement will be automatically closed! If an exception is thrown in the try block and another Exception is thrown while closing the resource, the first Exception is the one eventually thrown to the caller. The second Exception is available to the caller via the ex.getSupressed() method. Throwable.getSupressed() is a new method added on Throwable in Java 7 just for this purpose.
 
- More precise rethrow
- Multi-catch

- Binary integral literals

 With Java 7, you can now create numerical literals using binary notation using the prefix “0b”

 int n = 0b100000;
System.out.println(“n = ” + n);

- Underscores in numeric literals

int tenMillionButMoreReadable = 10_000_000;
System.out.println(“Amount is ” + tenMillionButMoreReadable);
- Consecutive underscores is legal.
    int n = 1000______000;
- Underscores can be included in other numeric types as well.

    double d = 1000_000.0d;
    long l = 1000_000l;
    int hex = 0xdead_c0de;
    int bytes = 0x1000_0000; 

- Underscore can be included after the decimal point.
    double example8 = 1000_000.000_000d;
- It is illegal to start a literal with an underscore
- It is illegal to end a literal with an underscore.
- It is also illegal to have underscore be just before or after a decimal point.

- generic inference

Map<String, List<String>> retVal = new HashMap<>();

return new HashMap<>(); 

- The java.nio.file.Path interface 

- The java.nio.file.Files class


The Files class offers over 50 utility methods for File related operations which many developers 
would have wanted to be a part of earlier Java releases. Here are some methods to give you a sense 
of the range of methods offered. 

1. copy() – copy a file, with options like REPLACE_EXISTING, NOFOLLOW_LINKS public static Path copy(Path source, Path target, CopyOption… options);
2. move() – move or rename a file public static Path move(Path source, Path target, CopyOption… options); 
3. newInputStream() – create input stream public static InputStream newInputStream(Path path, OpenOption… options); 
4. readAllBytes() – similar to the Apache IOUtils.readFile-ToByteArray public static byte[] readAllBytes(Path path) throws IOException; 
5. createSymbolicLink() – creates a symbolic link, if supported by the file system public static Path createSymbolicLink(Path link, Path target, FileAttribute<?>… attrs) throws IOException 

- WatchService API

## Java 8
Streams


## Java 9
Module


## Java 11

## Java 13

## Java 14